docs/CONTACT_FORM_IMPLEMENTATION.md, before:

# Contact Form Implementation Summary

## ✅ What Was Implemented

### 1. Email Service Abstraction Layer

Created a flexible, maintainable architecture for handling email services:

**Files Created:**
- `src/services/email/types.ts` - Interface definitions
- `src/services/email/emailjs.service.ts` - EmailJS implementation
- `src/services/email/formspree.service.ts` - Formspree implementation (alternative)
- `src/services/email/index.ts` - Service factory
- `src/services/email/README.md` - Technical documentation

### 2. Updated Contact Page

**File Modified:**
- `src/pages/contact.tsx`

**Changes:**
- ✅ Integrated EmailJS for sending emails
- ✅ Kept hCaptcha verification (spam protection)
- ✅ Used abstraction layer for easy service switching
- ✅ Improved error handling and user feedback
- ✅ Maintained existing form functionality and design

### 3. Documentation

**Files Created/Updated:**
- `docs/EMAIL_SETUP.md` - Complete setup guide for email services
- `src/services/email/README.md` - Technical architecture documentation
- `.env.local.example` - Updated with email service variables
- `README.md` - Added contact form features and setup steps

## 🔧 How to Use

### Quick Start

1. **Set up EmailJS** (Recommended):
   - Create account at [EmailJS.com](https://www.emailjs.com/)
   - Configure email service and template
   - Get your credentials (Service ID, Template ID, Public Key)

2. **Configure environment variables**:
   ```bash
   # Copy example file
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   
   # Edit .env.local and add:
   NEXT_PUBLIC_EMAILJS_SERVICE_ID=your_service_id
   NEXT_PUBLIC_EMAILJS_TEMPLATE_ID=your_template_id
   NEXT_PUBLIC_EMAILJS_PUBLIC_KEY=your_public_key
   NEXT_PUBLIC_HCAPTCHA_SITEKEY=your_hcaptcha_key
   ```

3. **Restart dev server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Test the contact form**:
   - Navigate to `/contact`
   - Fill out the form
   - Complete hCaptcha
   - Submit and check your email

### Switching Email Services

To switch from EmailJS to Formspree (or vice versa):

1. Update environment variables in `.env.local`
2. Restart the development server
3. No code changes needed!

Example for Formspree:
```bash
# Remove or comment out EmailJS vars
# NEXT_PUBLIC_EMAILJS_SERVICE_ID=...

# Add Formspree var
NEXT_PUBLIC_FORMSPREE_FORM_ID=your_formspree_id
```

## 🏗️ Architecture Highlights

### Benefits of the Abstraction Layer

1. **Easy Service Switching**: Change providers with just environment variables
2. **Type Safety**: TypeScript interfaces ensure consistency
3. **Maintainability**: Services are isolated and independently testable
4. **Extensibility**: Add new providers by implementing `IEmailService` interface
5. **No Vendor Lock-in**: Not dependent on any single email provider

### Design Pattern Used

**Strategy Pattern**: Different email services are strategies that can be swapped at runtime based on configuration.

```typescript
interface IEmailService {
  sendEmail(data: EmailMessage): Promise<EmailServiceResponse>;
  isConfigured(): boolean;
}
```

Each service implements this interface, ensuring they work identically from the contact form's perspective.

## 🔒 Security Features

1. **hCaptcha Integration**: Prevents spam and bot submissions
2. **Environment Variables**: Credentials never hardcoded
3. **Client-Side Verification**: Token validated before sending
4. **Error Handling**: Graceful failures without exposing sensitive info

## 📦 Dependencies Added

- `@emailjs/browser` (v4.4.1) - Already installed

## 📚 Documentation

- **Setup Guide**: [docs/EMAIL_SETUP.md](EMAIL_SETUP.md)
- **Service Architecture**: [src/services/email/README.md](../src/services/email/README.md)
- **Environment Variables**: [.env.local.example](../.env.local.example)

## 🚀 Next Steps

1. Create an EmailJS account and configure it
2. Set up hCaptcha if not already configured
3. Add environment variables to `.env.local`
4. Test the contact form locally
5. For production: Add environment variables to your CI/CD pipeline

## ⚠️ Important Notes

- **Never commit** `.env.local` to version control
- **hCaptcha is required** for the form to work (spam protection)
- **Email service must be configured** or users will see an error
- For **static exports** (GitHub Pages), environment variables must be available at build time

## 🧪 Testing Checklist

- [ ] EmailJS credentials configured
- [ ] hCaptcha site key configured
- [ ] Form loads without errors
- [ ] hCaptcha widget displays correctly
- [ ] Form validation works (required fields)
- [ ] Email sends successfully
- [ ] Success message displays
- [ ] Form resets after successful submission
- [ ] hCaptcha resets after submission
- [ ] Error messages display correctly
- [ ] Works on mobile devices

Commit message:

chore(email): remove Formspree support; clean workflows, env types, and docs

docs/CONTACT_FORM_IMPLEMENTATION.md, after:

# Contact Form Implementation Summary

## ✅ What Was Implemented

### 1. Email Service Abstraction Layer

Created a flexible, maintainable architecture for handling email services:

**Files Created:**
- `src/services/email/types.ts` - Interface definitions
- `src/services/email/emailjs.service.ts` - EmailJS implementation
- (Formspree support removed)
- `src/services/email/index.ts` - Service factory
- `src/services/email/README.md` - Technical documentation

### 2. Updated Contact Page

**File Modified:**
- `src/pages/contact.tsx`

**Changes:**
- ✅ Integrated EmailJS for sending emails
- ✅ Kept client-side hCaptcha verification (spam protection) — token not sent to email providers by default
- ✅ **Subject field is required**: the contact form enforces this client-side and the email service validates it before sending.
- ✅ Used abstraction layer for easy service switching
- ✅ Improved error handling and user feedback
- ✅ Maintained existing form functionality and design

### 3. Documentation

**Files Created/Updated:**
- `docs/EMAIL_SETUP.md` - Complete setup guide for email services
- `src/services/email/README.md` - Technical architecture documentation
- `.env.local.example` - Updated with email service variables
- `README.md` - Added contact form features and setup steps

## 🔧 How to Use

### Quick Start

1. **Set up EmailJS** (Recommended):
   - Create account at [EmailJS.com](https://www.emailjs.com/)
   - Configure email service and template
   - Get your credentials (Service ID, Template ID, Public Key)

2. **Configure environment variables**:
   ```bash
   # Copy example file
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   
   # Edit .env.local and add:
   NEXT_PUBLIC_EMAILJS_SERVICE_ID=your_service_id
   NEXT_PUBLIC_EMAILJS_TEMPLATE_ID=your_template_id
   NEXT_PUBLIC_EMAILJS_PUBLIC_KEY=your_public_key
   NEXT_PUBLIC_HCAPTCHA_SITEKEY=your_hcaptcha_key
   ```

3. **Restart dev server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Test the contact form**:
   - Navigate to `/contact`
   - Fill out the form
   - Complete hCaptcha
   - Submit and check your email

### Switching Email Services

To add another email provider, implement the `IEmailService` interface in `src/services/email/` and update `src/services/email/index.ts` to return your implementation. Restart the development server after adding new environment variables.

## 🏗️ Architecture Highlights

### Benefits of the Abstraction Layer

1. **Easy Service Switching**: Change providers with just environment variables
2. **Type Safety**: TypeScript interfaces ensure consistency
3. **Maintainability**: Services are isolated and independently testable
4. **Extensibility**: Add new providers by implementing `IEmailService` interface
5. **No Vendor Lock-in**: Not dependent on any single email provider

### Design Pattern Used

**Strategy Pattern**: Different email services are strategies that can be swapped at runtime based on configuration.

```typescript
interface IEmailService {
  sendEmail(data: EmailMessage): Promise<EmailServiceResponse>;
  isConfigured(): boolean;
}
```

Each service implements this interface, ensuring they work identically from the contact form's perspective.

## 🔒 Security Features

1. **hCaptcha Integration**: Prevents spam and bot submissions
2. **Environment Variables**: Credentials never hardcoded
3. **Client-Side Verification**: Token validated before sending
4. **Error Handling**: Graceful failures without exposing sensitive info

## 📦 Dependencies Added

- `@emailjs/browser` (v4.4.1) - Already installed

## 📚 Documentation

- **Setup Guide**: [docs/EMAIL_SETUP.md](EMAIL_SETUP.md)
- **Service Architecture**: [src/services/email/README.md](../src/services/email/README.md)
- **Environment Variables**: [.env.local.example](../.env.local.example)

## 🚀 Next Steps

1. Create an EmailJS account and configure it
2. Set up hCaptcha if not already configured
3. Add environment variables to `.env.local`
4. Test the contact form locally
5. For production: Add environment variables to your CI/CD pipeline

## ⚠️ Important Notes

- **Never commit** `.env.local` to version control
- **hCaptcha is required** for the form to work (spam protection)
- **Email service must be configured** or users will see an error
- For **static exports** (GitHub Pages), environment variables must be available at build time

## 🧪 Testing Checklist

- [ ] EmailJS credentials configured
- [ ] hCaptcha site key configured
- [ ] Form loads without errors
- [ ] hCaptcha widget displays correctly
- [ ] Form validation works (required fields)
- [ ] Email sends successfully
- [ ] Success message displays
- [ ] Form resets after successful submission
- [ ] hCaptcha resets after submission
- [ ] Error messages display correctly
- [ ] Works on mobile devices
